Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
talking with Suz Hinton. She's
a web and open source
hardware developer. How are you?
I'm good. Thank you. I'm
really excited to be here
talking with you. Yeah, I
reached out to you because
I was perusing my medium,
the medium.com over at free
code camp. And I saw
a great new post that
you put up that says
lessons from my first year
of live coding on Twitch.
And that's a pretty Epic
title for a couple of
reasons first because it's lessons.
I like that it's live
coding. I also like that
it's on Twitch and not
YouTube or Google Hangouts. And
it's my first year. Like
you could have been like
lessons from my first week,
but you, you did something
that is hard and scary
and you did it for
a year and I am
totally blown away by that.
So I had to talk
to you. I really appreciate
that. I'm, I'm super pumped
to just like look back
on my year. And I
think that's why I wrote
it in the first place,
because I think I've really
grown since. So I'm glad
that you sorta saw the
appeal. Did you intend to
do something for a year
or is this, are you
going to live code on
Twitch for life or was
this a start and in
beginning and an end kind
of a thing I don't
know about for life, but
I definitely just started with
just doing it once. I
was like, I wonder how
this would go. And then
I realized, Oh, this is
actually kind of like good
in different ways than I
thought it was going to
be. For example, is quite
motivating. And to, to be
able to do your work
when you're accountable to other
people watching. So that's in
the end, why I stuck
with it, but it definitely
started as an experiment. Did
you think that, how did
you come upon Twitch? Why
not just Google Hangouts or
like Twitch? I think of
is Twitch is where people
go and play games. Yeah,
definitely. I think that I
knew about Twitch back when
it was code justin.tv and
back then, it wasn't actually
necessarily for like gaming platforms,
but now it's very much
heavily focused around that. And
I think that was kind
of where they, they pivoted
a little bit when they
became Twitch. And so I
just thought that that was
kind of where you live
streamed your stuff. But I
also noticed that there were
other programmers that who was
streaming on it. So I
thought, okay, well I'm not
the only one that will
be on there. So I
should probably give this a
go and try and find
a community here. Were there
any particular programmers or programs
or games that like stuck
out at you when you
were kind of perusing the
people who are live coding
on Twitch? Yeah, for sure.
I think the first one
that I saw was handmade
hero and a lot of
people will be familiar with
that programmer. I don't know
whether you've, if you've watched
any of those episodes before
I did. Yeah. So like
he kind of starts from
scratch and he makes a
game, including, I think the
game engine from starting with
just C not using any
frameworks or libraries and then
his goal was to complete
an entire game and then
explain absolutely everything he was
doing on the along the
way, which seems like a
really lofty goal to me.
And like super meticulous too,
because you have to just
keep that going and keep
talking as you're actually programming.
And I think that's what
first fascinated me about it.
How the thing that blew
me away about handmade hero
is the idea that something
that's being begun without an
actual, like, thought about the
end. Like he was like,
I'm going to start this.
I'm going to do it
for a couple of years.
We'll release everything to the
public domain. And you know,
if you want he'll, he'll
go and sell you the
game and zip it all
up. And you know, for
15 bucks you can buy
it all. But to start
a project like that without
knowing if you could even
succeed or what if you
hit a, hit a bump
for two weeks, that blows
me away. Yeah. I definitely
have always wanted that confidence
to start on something that
big and probably be okay
with it if it fails
to, because there's always that
chance. Right. So I'm sure
he had the confidence in
his skills to see it
through. But I think when
you, when you have such
a huge challenge like that,
it can possibly fail and
having the guts to start
on it anyway, definitely is
quite inspiring to me. Yeah.
And he's doing it basically
like an hour at a
time at hour at a
time, and he's on several
hundred episodes now, 400 episodes,
I think. Yeah. And he's
got like a ton of
followers as well. So it's,
it's really, really cool. Cause
you can go back and
just watch them if you've
missed some or if you
kind of like didn't stop
watching them when he started.
So I think that's really
cool too. So did you
decide to put that level
of effort in it? Were
you going to do like
an hour a day or
an hour a week? What's
your schedule like? Yeah, so
I do it a lot
less frequently and part of
that is like I just
travel a lot for my
job. And also I thought,
well, so I have this
friend who this is, this
is totally related. I promise
I have this friend who
needed to start flossing his
teeth. And instead of saying,
all right, I'm going to
floss all my teeth every
single day from now on
when I've never been in
that habit instead, he's like,
all right, I'm going to
floss one tooth, one tooth
every single day without fail.
And then he kind of
gradually built it up to
be every single tooth in
his mouth. And then that
became a habit for him.
And that to him was
basically saying let's like lower
that barrier to entry. And
so I had the same
attitude. I thought it's really,
really hard to find the
same time on the same
schedule every single week. It's
much harder than people think
it is. Even if you've
got, you know, a weekend,
even if you've got free
week nights, that you're always
home. And so, you know,
that to me was an
achievable goal and I thought
maybe I'll stream for four
hours that Sunday, or maybe
I'll only stream for one
hour that Sunday. But if
I start at the exact
same time, then I have
no excuses. I can't keep
putting it off till later
in the day and then
not do it. So to
me it was just something
that would be achievable. And
in the end that's been
the most sustainable thing for
me. I don't think I've
ever increased it to be
more, even though I've definitely
considered it several times. You
said that you travel a
lot. Do you like live,
switch, live, live Twitch, live
stream from like the hotel?
So that would be really
cool. I think that I
really like the, even though
my, my setup isn't super,
super high quality. I do
like having, you know, just
my, my desk at home.
It's, it's kind of where
I feel the most productive.
And also I have a
reliable internet connection. So I've
thought about doing hotel streams,
but sometimes when you're traveling,
it's just another layer on
top of like the stress
that you have as well.
And so it kind of
becomes my space to just
say, well, I might be
a regular stream of, but
I also have like a
personal life too. So I
think it definitely adds a
human element if I have
to be missing for a
weekend sometimes as well. Yeah.
Do people complain because we
do the asp.net community stand
up on tuesdays@livedotasp.net and people
get mad if we don't
show up, like if one
of us is out of
town, it's like, where are
you guys? And you're like,
it's quite intense. So some
of my regular view is
they'll, they'll definitely say this
ad. I've definitely had someone
say, Oh, like I normally
get out of bed like
early in the morning to
watch Susan's stream on Sunday,
but she's not streaming. So
I'm just going to get
up in the afternoon instead.
So like some of them
would just kind of try
and make me feel guilty.
They'll be like, Oh, well
I'm just not going to
get out of bed. Cause
there's no point which is
very dramatic. But I think
that that's really flattering and
it it's, it's their way
of saying, Hey, we miss
you, which is really lovely.
I like talking to people
who have, who are trying
something that's maybe outside their
comfort zone. So like a
lot, we hear about people
learning to give presentations. I've
talked to people, who've been
programming five years and gone,
decided to give a technical
talk and I've talked to
people who've been 20 years
or more in the industry
and they just gave their
first technical talk. So we
hear a lot about this.
You see blog posts about
encouraging people to give, to
give their first tech talk,
but you don't really hear
about that. Like we should
all be live coding on
Twitch or on that. Like,
I don't know, public speaking
times a thousand, like I
am, I am a somewhat
professional public speaker and I
am intimidated by the idea
that you would go and
be able to do that.
Do you see that those
things are related, but one
is more intense than the
other? Yeah, I think that's
a really great observation. So
I do a fair amount
of public speaking as well
because, because I tend to
work in, we had spaces
in open source, like node
JS hardware. I tend to
get invited to do a
lot of talks. And so
I'd been public speaking for
a number of years, but
when I approached starting with
Twitch, I thought it was
going to be really similar.
I'm like, Oh, I'm just
giving a talk or it's
just like a webinar, but
it is a completely different
experience. And when I first
started, I felt an anxiety
like that. I hadn't felt
for a very long time,
not since I first kind
of started public speaking for
Shaw. It feels like, it
feels like you have a
bunch of people in your
room, but it feels a
lot more intimate than giving
a public talk on a
stage. If that makes sense.
Cause you're inviting people into
your weekend and your, they
can see like the livestream
video view at your desk.
So it definitely feels much
more intimate than a public
speaker Engagement. When I give
talks, I always, you know,
I've, I've blogged about this.
I struggle with imposter syndrome
and feeling like a phony,
I would only assume that
that is magnified when you
are trying to produce, like
I can produce what I
call edutainment, you know, I
can educate and entertain on
stage, but if I actually
have to write something from
scratch and make it work
and that, that feels very,
very intimate. And were you
afraid that people were going
to, like, I dunno like
an mean anonymous people were
gonna be like you suck
and here's proof I've got
it on video 100%. Yes.
I was really, really worried
for a number of different
reasons. So like I've been
programming professionally for, I think
11 or 12 years now.
And so like, I know
how to work with teams
and you know, I know
how to write good code
or I want to think
that I do, but you
know, there's always room for
improvement. And so the difference
is that usually when I'm
working with teams or if
I'm pushing up stuff to
open source, I'm testing stuff
out completely with like the
lecturey that it feels like
to me now, the luxury
of privacy where no one's
watching over my shoulder and
I'm just able to play
with code and I'm able
to write bad code and
then improve it and then
refactor it right. Even, you
know, push it up and
then force push over the
top of it. If you
found something embarrassing. And I
don't really have that when
I'm live coding on Twitch.
I honestly feel that this
definitely this safety net, that's
not there that I feel
when I'm able to kind
of just do that by
myself. And so probably what
scared me the most. I
thought that if I started
coding that this kind of
carefully crafted reputation, you know,
for me professionally where people
really enjoy working with me,
they think that, you know,
that I'm a good programmer.
I thought that people were
going to find out this
disgraceful secret that I actually
am not very good because
they judge me kind of
on the quick code that
I'm writing on the live
stream. Right. And they're like,
Oh, well this is her
in her, in her in
a comfortable situation, but that's
really not the case at
all. You know? So you
kind of have to embrace
that. You're going to be
scared and embrace that maybe
people will be mean, but
most people in my experience
with being super simple, I
could see if, if I'm
going to put a little
bit of a fine point
on this and tell me
if I'm going in the
wrong direction. But if I,
as a middle aged man
or to say, well, you
just have to embrace that,
that people are going to
be mean sometimes. And I
told that to maybe someone
who is younger than you
and I, and maybe just
getting started you of course
are not just getting started,
but someone's getting started. I
said, you should go out
there. Someone being mean could
knock them right off of
their, right off their perch
and make them it could
ruin them. You know what
I mean? We hear about
people getting very cruel treatment
because of a GitHub pull
request. I can only imagine
that coding for an hour
and doing a lousy job
of it would definitely fuel
the trolls. You don't don't
you think that as a
woman in tech you're, you're
going to come up against
those kinds of mean people.
And do you just push
through it or are you
not cultivating any kind of
mean people like that? Yeah,
I think that that's actually
a really great point to
make and it's part of
why I felt fear. Like
that's another reason why I
felt fear was that for
me, as a woman in
tech, I feel extra pressure
to be perfect at everything,
you know, perfect at code
perfect at emotional labor. I
also need to look the
pot and just be very,
very nice and, you know,
not be blunt or anything
like that. And so I
felt like everything was on
display when I first started
programming on Twitch and I
thought someone's going to come
in and either to make
themselves feel better about themselves
or just because they're just
really, really unkind in general.
I honestly was just waiting
every stream for just this
flurry of really awful abusive
viewers to come in and
start trolling me. I honestly
expected it. And I know
that's really, really cynical, but
just being a woman in
tech and moving around that
space, you know, in the
industry for as long as
I have, you definitely see
stuff and it is death
by a thousand paper cuts.
So I was preparing myself
for that, which is kind
of sad to think. I
don't know why, and I'm
still a little bit suspicious,
but it actually has been
very, very positive. And some
of the trolls I've gotten
have actually made me laugh
more than anything was the
biggest surprise. That's good. Well,
it seems also though that
after you've been doing this
for a while, for over
a year that you have
a community now and even
you've even gone so far
as to call them a
family, I would assume that
they would back you up
as any good family would
if there were trouble. That's
right. And I have seen
examples of that. So for
example, I have a, I
have a chat room that
says, cause you can actually
set up chat roles in
your channel below that says
things like, Hey, you know,
if you like my shirt,
it's cool to say like
cool shirt, but maybe just
don't really comment on my
appearance. Especially like, especially in
a way that's talking about
me being attractive or something
like that. And some people
will come in, not read
the roles and they'll be
very cliche. They'll even say
things like, Oh, I just
can't believe that there's like
a lady coding. And like,
that's so awesome. And then
they'll talk about my parents
and a lot of my
family as, as, as I
call them, like, if you
read my, my article, they'll
come in and say, Hey,
like just cool. It like,
you know, women in tech
are a thing and I'm
sorry if you haven't seen
that before, but you know,
Susan is just another developer
like us. And so they're
really good about doing that.
And I've had some really
funny trolls actually where they
don't even care about that.
They'll just come in, they'll
see that I'm maintaining like
a JavaScript library that I
wrote a little while ago
before IES 2015 came out
and they'll just be like,
Oh, you're coding an ESBL
five. Like, why are you
doing that? And like, Oh,
like you can't write Java
script. You're bad at it.
And it's so bizarre to
see that that I'm like,
yeah, if that's going to
bother you on the stream,
then I'm not sure this
is the stream for you.
Cause it was still having
a lot of fun even
if we're not using the
latest features. So I actually
get more of that then
trolls about my gender or
anything. And again, that's blown
me away how supportive my
family have been, even if
that has actually happened once
or twice during my stream.
You had mentioned that one
of the things that was
the most fun that continues,
you do a lot of
work in the, you said
in the open source hardware
and kind of the no
JS hardware libraries. So talking
to Arduinos and things. Did
you have a situation once
where you may have had
a bit of a glitch
and a Arduino board while
you were on a live
stream? Yeah. So I think,
I think you interviewed Daniel
Shiffman a little while back
and you was saying that
sometimes a lot of his,
his videos, he has to
edit out whole sections of
debugging. And so, you know,
I obviously don't have that
luxury. And so people are
kind of sitting with me
and sometimes they'll point out
like typos in my code,
which is extremely helpful because
it's really, really hard to
spot them when you're talking
aloud at the same time.
But then other times I'll
be holding the Arduino board
up to the camera so
that, you know, everyone can
watch the lights blinking as
it uploads the program, for
example. And so I try
and make it so that
everyone can see what I'm
doing at all times. They
don't have to guess. And
that saved me one day
because I was holding up
the board and I was
like, Hey everyone, I just
don't know why my software
is broken. It's just saying
that the Arduino board is,
is not plugged in. Right.
And then someone pointed out
and said, Oh, your microchip
is actually not stuck on
the board. Like you've popped
it out of the socket.
It doesn't have a chip,
so it can't talk to
it. So it thinks that
there's nothing plugged in. And
like there is a video
in my article where I
just erupt into the most
ridiculous peels of laughter because
it's just, you know, we
were stuck on that for
several minutes and that was
such a simple thing that
I should look for. But
you know, my view as
a like so super smart
and they spotted it immediately,
Which is great. That's awesome.
So when did the techs,
the tech support, did you
try plugging it in like
of course I Oh no.
Yeah. When they said that
in chat, I was like,
no. And I was like,
Oh, you're right. That's Epic.
I'm looking at your, at
your get hub, which is
quite extensive. It's got a
lot of great information for
people who are learning about
Arduino and learning about node
JS. And you have a
thing called AVR girl dash
Arduino. What is that project?
Yeah. So that's actually a
project that I work on
very heavily on my Twitch
stream. It is one of
the most popular libraries that
have put out there. So
AVR girl, the name itself
is like agenda bend on
the software product. That's already
out there code AVR dude.
So yeah. So AVR dude,
it's, it's a backronym so
it stands for AVR upload
download, but it kind of
uses like letters in the
middle of the words and
all that kind of thing.
Are you for uploader dude
or? Okay. I got it.
That makes sense. Yeah. So
that's actually what the Arduino
IDE the actual code editor
is using under the surface
to upload the compiled code
that you've written to the
Arduino. And so I wanted
to write a no JS
version of that so that
we have like a really
popular robotics scene in like
the no JS ecosystem code
node bytes. And we teach
people how to use JavaScript
to control electronics and robotics.
And part of that involves
running workshops. We have like
an international, no butts day
every year, which has really,
really awesome. And we found
that people had to download
the people, have to download
the Arduino IDE, but after
they kind of uploaded this
one script that we gave
them, they pretty much wrote
JavaScript for the rest of
the day. And so it
was a really odd experience
and I wanted to write
a whole bunch of JavaScript
tool chains so that people
running the workshop could also
write their setup scripts and
JavaScript too. And so it
kind of all kept it
all in the same ecosystem
and it allowed people to
kind of write extensions very
easily. So that was a
long, long winded way of
kind of explaining what AVL
girl had. We know. Does
it allows you to flash
compiled C plus plus code
onto devices using no JS.
Oh, okay. So let me
see if I can provide
historical context and paraphrase that
correctly then. So AVR dude,
the AVR is the Atmel
microcontrollers, right? The Atmel AVR.
That's the, that's the chip
that's powers. The Ardwino. Yeah.
Correct. I did miss that
bit out. So thank you.
Yes. And then AVR dude
is like 15 years old,
thanks to a 14 year
old software that really hasn't
even been thought about in
the last seven years or
so. And it was very
low level. And since node
is so much higher level,
now AVR girl gives you
that kind of modern 2017
way of flashing this microcontroller,
which just makes life better
for everybody. That's totally the
idea. And what in a
mysterious turn of events are
we Arduino actually consume and
use that library. Now they
have a code editor in
the browser and on Chrome
OS, they ended up creating
like an app that uses
AVL girl Arduino in a
browser environment. So you can
write code, but then flash
that code to the device
straight from the chromo S
which is kind of awesome.
And so that was really
exciting when they reached out
to say, Hey, thanks for
writing this. We ended up
like consuming and using it.
So I thought that that
was really Exciting. That's cool.
And it looks like it's
an MIT license, so it's
very friendly to things like
that. I try. Nice. Yeah.
So let me understand that
I have opened up the
Arduino IDE, and I know
how to use that when
I'm writing no JS code,
does this mean I don't
need the Arduino IDE at
all? I just use AVR
girl instead. It depends. So
there are definitely, there's definitely
steps that you need to
do before you use it.
VR gorilla wino, where you
can pretty much like write
Adrina code in any editor
and you can use the
OD Wiener ID to just
kind of compile that code
and then upload it. But
there are other tools out
there that you can use
to compile the Arduino code
first. So there is that
extra step beforehand that you
need to do before you
can actually take that finished
file and upload it using
AVL girl, I do have
an experimental library code, AVL
pizza, which is a long
story, and it actually doesn't
require any like compilation told
teens to exist on your
computer. What you can do
is you can just send
it. It's just a no
JS wrapper. So you give
the path to the file
that you want to compile.
And it will kind of
toggle that out, send it
up to a cloud hosted
and machine and it will
compile it and send it
back down to you via
an API request. So I
code it AVL pizza, because
it delivers you, you ask
for a, you supply a
toggle and you get pizza,
which is your compiled code.
That was the idea. That's
cool. But that means that
I could potentially teach our
doing out to a whole
room full of people, no
matter what kind of machines
that they had. And even
if they had Chromebooks, like
you said, right. And then
it would be available to
everyone. That's exactly right. I
think a lot of the
time that we lose running
these workshops is just the
really nuanced differences between everyone's
computers, even if they're even
running a very similar operating
system. And so this poor
person would just get lost.
There would be blaming themselves
when they finally asked for
help, they were like 10
steps behind. And then we
would feel that that was
a bad experience for them
and that we could do
better than that. And so
a lot of these tools
have come about and some
of them is still experimental,
like ABL pizza, where I
just want it. I just
want robotics to be the
nicest, most fun experience out
of the gate. So that,
that intimidation factor that people
kind of feel about hardware
just completely flies out the
window within like 10 seconds
of the workshop. Okay. Yeah.
That's, that's the kind of
stuff. What I work on.net
where I want like telling
people like, Hey, everyone, let's
start our workshop, but first
we have to download a
two gig like IDE and
ISO file. And you don't
want your workshop to be
all about Set up. Right.
And even if you set
them that as homework, you
know, that like 50% or
more of them and not
going to get that email
or they're going to forget,
and then they're going to
turn up and you've got
really bad wifi at the
venue. And then everyone's trying
to suck down two gigs
and passing around a thumb
drive with the software on
it. So yeah, I totally
get it. So speaking of
hardware and set up, if
someone who is listening is
finally after listening to us
for 25 minutes, decided that
they are going to start
streaming online. What do they
need? They need to buy
something or could they stream
to Twitch like right away.
That's a really good question.
So all of the tools
that I use and including
Twitch, the service itself, I've
never actually paid for. So
it is really, really quick
to get up and running
and it's free as well.
And so Twitch, the platform,
you sign up for a
free account and you get
what's called a streaming key.
And that streaming key allows
you to once you've been
some streaming software. So for
example, I use OBS, which
is open broadcaster software and
that's free and open source
obviously from there, the name
open. And so if you
just drop your Twitch stream
key in there, and you
set up a scene with
your webcam and maybe like
a desktop capture, like that
is actually the bare bones
set up to get you
going to start streaming out
of the box. Do you
need a fast machine? Like,
because you are basically what
encoding the screen and sending
it out the wire at
X frames a second. Yeah,
totally. So I know that
some people's laptops that, that
are, you know, four or
five years old can struggle
a little bit. I did
start streaming initially on a
two and 12 MacBook pro
and that was a year
ago. And so I did
have to put a slight
delay on my microphone because
it couldn't keep up with
composite doing all of the
video. So I eventually upgraded
to a better laptop, but
that actually served me really
well for, I think at
least six months, it was
only when I added a
second webcam and I was
using that to kind of
show the hardware project that
I was working on on
my desk. That's when we
just had a lot of
dropped frames and things like
that. So I would say
that if you've, if you've
got something like a Mac
book pro or, you know,
a PC that's only like,
you know, three years old,
then it's, you're probably good
to go with that. And
you can do nice tricks,
like altering the bit rate,
maybe just lowering the quality
slightly on the video. And
you'll find that your machine
can catch up a little
bit more. Okay. So giving,
like you don't just assume
that everyone's running 10 ADP
and small fonts, I assume
that small fonts get kind
of JPEG or artifact and
you'd have to think a
little bit about your presentation.
Yeah, definitely. So just, just
when I give presentations, you
know, normal presentations on stage,
I guess I usually blow
up my phone really large.
And so a lot of
those rules still apply. Like,
imagine you're presenting this to
people that might be watching
on their iPad or they
could be watching on a
small computer, or you could
just be going through a
bit of a J Peggy
artifacty kind of looking stream
if your Internet's not great.
So yeah, definitely compensate for
that, but I've had pretty
good mileage. It's usually the
audio delays that sometimes happen
to me A couple of
times I've tried live streaming
and I've accidentally like pasted
my password in. Or if
someone is like seen a
connection string, how do you
prevent that kind of stuff?
Yeah. So a lot of
people are really scared to
start streaming. And I've like
in the last few days
since writing the article, people
have been like, I'm just
so scared. I'm going to
accidentally open a doc file
or something. And that's definitely
something that I I'm very,
very careful with. I have
a special scene that I
set up and it scenes
in OBS like a thing
where you can switch between
different layouts. So I have
a whole layout where it
just shows my webcam in
the corner, but I have
this funny GIF and I
forget the artist's name, but
it's really cool. And she's,
there's a, does just a
cartoon picture of a woman
walking down the stairs. And
it just says in the
corner doing secret stuff, give
me a sec. And so
if I, if let's say
I'm working with an API
and my token expires, or
I need to read some
debug output, some people have
a second monitor that they
can kind of drag the
window over to, but I
work with just one monitor
so I can stay focused
on everything. And I end
up switching to that scene
and people think it's really
funny. And they try to
guess what I'm doing. Sometimes
they're like, Oh, she's doing
secret stuff. What she's doing.
So it can actually add
a little bit of like
entertainment. Whereas normally that sounds
really boring. It's like, Oh
wait, hang on. I have
to like do the silly
token thing. So yeah, there's
definitely tactics, But you do
think about it, like, like
you're a director of your
own TV show, so you've
got your like technical difficulties
screen that pops up and
you switch your scenes. So
you're managing the camera angles
and all that kind of
stuff with these OBS scenes.
Yeah. It's so true. Like
sometimes I'm super cookie and
I'll switch to a completely
different computer just by switching
scenes. So I'll be like,
Oh, I'm now VNC it
into my windows box so
we can test out this
bug. That's only happening on
windows or, Oh, this is
my Linux laptop, because like
someone said that there was
some funny behavior going on
in Linux. So it's, it's
pretty funny. My last question
is that when you started
this, you were actually rehearsing,
like you would prepare for
your stream. Like it was
a talk, but you didn't
even, you didn't even rehearse
anymore. Right. I mean, do
you just show up and
start typing? Yeah, that's true.
So I would say that
the rehearsing came from me
seeing, like I was coming
from doing like a, a
public speaking presentation. Right. And
so I thought, Oh, well,
like to give a good
presentation, you have to rehearse
lots of times and I've
never done live coding on
stage, but I imagined that
I would end up rehearsing
that over and over again
to get it right. And
so I just thought, Oh,
that's what you do on
Twitch. And also I was
so afraid of tarnishing my
reputation by making a single
mistake, but I also thought
that, Oh, if I make
a mistake and start debugging,
maybe people will get lost
and not know what I'm
doing, or maybe it will
just ruin the kind of
tutorial where people will just
kind of lose interest. So
I was so afraid of
my own reputation and just
like showing those words that
I just rehearsed so many
times, and I had a
secret branch where I'd committed
it, you know, in case
I needed to quickly look
at it in the morning.
And it definitely was a
symptom of my own self
esteem as a coder that
I felt I hadn't really
noticed that much. And so
it was a really good
thing to kind of allow
me to get over that
fear for sure. And I
think that it makes you
way, way more relatable, where
people like, Oh, people who
even have been doing front
end coding for a long
time, still mess up, or
sometimes, you know, like they,
they do typos and it's
important to show that I
think, Yeah. It's like those,
those pulpy newspapers that you
see where it's like stars,
they're just like us. I
think everyone, everyone feels like
they don't know what they're
doing. And the fact is
we're all learning. We're all
on stack overflow. I mean,
Deloitte, do you Google and
go to stack overflow during
your stream? Totally. Yes. And
sometimes I'll even say, can
someone look this up for
me? Like, I'll look up
the method. Yeah. And it's
really cool. Or maybe I'll
just look something up real
quick and like, I'll feel
bad for, you know, like
wasting time or what I
think is wasting time. So
run back, I'll start using
a method and someone will
say, actually, no, I think
that this array method is
better. And I just looked
up what version of node
it's compatible with and you're
totally core to use it.
And so that's huge for
me. And so I like
to describe my Twitch stream
as like massively multiplayer online
pair programming, or like, you
know, mob programming on the
internet because that's me shows
that people feel comfortable to
engage with me. They feel
confident enough that even if
they don't know much about
the library, I'm working on
that they feel that they're
welcome to still help out.
And I think that that
has been the magic that
I've seen in my community.
That's awesome. Well, thanks so
much for talking with me
today. Yeah, this was super
great. Yeah. I'm going to
put a link to your
medium post about lessons from
my first year of live
coding, as well as a
link to your Twitch on
the show notes. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.